#separator:tab
#html:true
Abandon	To give up on completely; to desert. "The sailors had to abandon the sinking ship."
Keen	Having or showing eagerness or enthusiasm. "He is a keen supporter of the new policy."
Jealous	Feeling or showing envy of someone or their achievements and advantages. "She was jealous of her sister's success."
Tact	The ability to say or do the right thing in difficult situations. "He showed great tact in handling the delicate matter."
Oath	A solemn promise, often invoking a divine witness, regarding one's future action or behavior. "He took an oath to tell the truth in court."
Vacant	Empty; not filled or occupied. "The vacant house next door was finally sold."
Hardship	Severe suffering or privation. "The family faced many hardships during the war."
Gallant	(Of a person or their behavior) brave; heroic. "The gallant soldiers fought for their country."
Data	Facts and statistics collected for reference or analysis. "The company collects data on customer preferences."
Unaccustomed	Not familiar or usual; out of the ordinary. "He was unaccustomed to the cold weather."
Bachelor	A man who is not and has never been married. "He remained a bachelor his entire life."
Qualify	To be entitled to a particular benefit or privilege by fulfilling a necessary condition. "She doesn't qualify for the scholarship."
Bundle	A collection of things wrapped up together. "She carried a bundle of firewood."
Stack	A pile of objects, typically one that is neatly arranged. "Please bring me a chair from that stack in the corner."
Narrative	A spoken or written account of connected events; a story. "He is writing a detailed narrative of his life."
Entangle	To cause to become twisted together with or caught in. "The dolphins became entangled in a fishing net."
Unravel	To undo (twisted, knitted, or woven threads). "She unraveled the sweater to reuse the yarn."
Dawn	The first appearance of light in the sky before sunrise. "We woke up at dawn."
Endeavor	To try hard to do or achieve something. "He is endeavoring to learn to speak French."
Ladle	A large long-handled spoon with a cup-shaped bowl, used for serving soup, stew, or sauce. "She used a ladle to serve the soup."
Scarlet	Of a brilliant red color. "She wore a scarlet dress."
Hunch	A feeling or guess based on intuition rather than known facts. "I have a hunch that it will rain today."
Crouch	To adopt a position where the knees are bent and the upper body is brought forward and down. "He crouched down, waiting for the right moment to attack."
Sprinkle	To scatter or pour small drops or particles of a substance over an object or surface. "Sprinkle the cake with sugar."
Staggering	Deeply shocking; astonishing. "The news of his resignation was staggering."
Foster	To encourage the development of (something, especially something desirable). "The teacher's task is to foster learning."
Embezzle	To steal or misappropriate (money placed in one's trust or belonging to the organization for which one works). "He was caught embezzling money from his company."
Dispatch	Speed in carrying out one's work or duty. "You need to move with some dispatch."
Rehearsal	A practice or trial performance of a play or other work for later public performance. "The actors are in rehearsal for the new play."
Wary	Feeling or showing caution about possible dangers or problems. "Be wary of strangers."
Thrilled	Very excited and pleased. "I'm thrilled for you!"
Pitfall	A hidden or unsuspected danger or difficulty. "The pitfalls of buying a used car."
Gangly	(Of a person) tall, thin, and awkward in movements or bearing. "A gangly teenager."
Stumpy	Short and thick; squat. "He had stumpy fingers."
Clove	The dried flower bud of a tropical tree, used as a pungent aromatic spice. "Add a clove of garlic to the recipe."
Shoutout	A public expression of thanks or gratitude. "I want to give a shoutout to my team."
Props	Recognition and respect. "I have to give him props for his hard work."
Scattered	Occurring or found at intervals or various locations rather than all together. "His toys were scattered all over the room."
"Eat the frog in the morning"	An expression that means to tackle your most challenging task of the day first.
Distinct	Recognizably different in nature from something else of a similar type. "There's a distinct smell of garlic in here."
Accountability	The fact or condition of being accountable; responsibility. "The company has a culture of accountability."
Seldom	Not often; rarely. "We seldom see each other anymore."
