#separator:tab
#html:false
What is an API in the context of machine learning?	An Application Programming Interface (API) is a set of rules that allows different software programs to communicate with each other. Example: Like a menu in a restaurant, which tells the kitchen what to prepare based on your selection.
"Define ""classification"" in machine learning."	Classification is sorting things into different groups or categories. Example: Like sorting fruits into apples and bananas.
What is a classifier in machine learning?	A classifier is a tool in machine learning used to categorize or classify things. Example: Like a sorting hat in Harry Potter that decides which house each student belongs to.
What is cross-validation in machine learning?	Cross-validation is a method to check how well a machine learning model performs on unseen data, similar to a practice exam before the final exam.
How can we call a  table in machine learning where each row represents a different item, and each column represents a detail about the item. Example: Like a chart where each row is a different student and each column is a different test score.	data matrix or input data
What does early stopping mean in machine learning?	Early stopping means halting the training process before the machine learning model becomes too complex, similar to stopping a game when leading to avoid risks.
What is an estimator in machine learning?	An estimator is a machine learning model that estimates or guesses something. Example:
What are features, variables, attributes, descriptors, and covariates in machine learning?	These terms refer to the details or characteristics used to describe items in machine learning(this will be the column in a table). Example: Describing friends by their height, age, or hair color.
What does generalization performance mean in machine learning?	Generalization performance refers to how well a machine learning model performs on new, unseen data, not just on the data it was trained on. Example: Like being able to solve new puzzles, not just the ones you've practiced.
What are hyperparameters in machine learning?	Hyperparameters are settings or dials that control the learning process of a machine learning model. Example: Like adjusting the rules of a board game.
What does infer or inference mean in machine learning?	To infer or perform inference means making predictions or drawing conclusions from data. Example: Like deducing it probably rained because the streets are wet.
What are learned parameters in machine learning?	Learned parameters are the knowledge a machine learning model has gained from training data. Example: What you remember after studying for a test.
What is a meta-estimator in machine learning?	A meta-estimator is a tool that combines several machine learning models to improve performance. Example: Like a team of experts working together to make better decisions.
What is a model in machine learning?	In machine learning, a model is a program trained to recognize patterns. Example: Like a recipe you follow to bake a specific type of cake.
What is overfitting in machine learning?	Overfitting occurs when a model learns the training data too well, capturing noise and details that don't matter, which harms its performance on new data. Example: Like memorizing practice test answers without understanding the questions, leading to failure in the real test.
What is a predictor in machine learning?	A predictor is a feature or variable used in making predictions(target). Example: Like using past performance to predict who will win a race.
"Define ""predict"" or ""prediction"" in machine learning."	To predict or make a prediction means making a guess about something based on data. Example: Like predicting the weather based on the sky's appearance.
What is regression in machine learning?	Regression is a type of model that predicts a number, like the price of a house, based on other numbers. Example: Like estimating your height based on your age.
What is a regressor in machine learning?	A regressor is a machine learning model used in regression tasks to predict numerical values. Example: Like a tool helping to predict your game score based on practice hours.
What does regularization or penalization mean in machine learning?	Regularization or penalization are techniques to prevent a model from overfitting. Example: Like adding rules to make a game fairer.
What is a sample, instance, or observation in machine learning?	A sample, instance, or observation is an individual piece of data or information. Example: In a classroom, each student would be considered a sample or instance.
What is supervised learning in machine learning?	Supervised learning is a type of machine learning where the model is trained using data that is already labeled. Example: Like learning to identify animals because someone has already shown you pictures with their names.
What are target, label, and annotation in machine learning?	These terms refer to the answer or outcome that a supervised learning model is trying to predict. Example: In a game of guessing animal names from pictures, the name of the animal is the label.
What is a test set in machine learning?	A test set is a collection of data used to evaluate the performance of a machine learning model, separate from the data used for training. Example: Like taking a final exam after practicing with study materials.
What does it mean to train, learn, or fit a model in machine learning?	Training, learning, or fitting a model means teaching the model to recognize patterns in data. Example: Like learning how to solve different types of math problems.
What is a train set in machine learning?	A train set is the collection of data used to train a machine learning model. Example: Like using old exams to study for an upcoming test.
What is a transformer in machine learning?	A transformer is a tool that modifies or processes data before it is used in machine learning. Example: Like cleaning and organizing your study notes before an exam.
What is underfitting in machine learning?	Underfitting occurs when a model is too simple to capture the patterns in the data, leading to poor performance on both the training and new data. Example: Like trying to understand a complex subject using only a brief summary.
What is unsupervised learning in machine learning?	Unsupervised learning is a type of machine learning where the model looks for patterns in data that is not labeled. Example: Like sorting a pile of coins into different types without being told which is which.
What is a validation set in machine learning?	A validation set is a collection of data used to tune the hyperparameters of a machine learning model during the training process. Example: Like taking practice tests between study sessions to improve your knowledge before the final exam.
"In the field of machine learning or descriptive statistics, what are commonly used equivalent terms for ""row""?"	"""Sample"", ""record"", ""instance"", or ""observation""."
In the field of machine learning and descriptive statistics, what term is commonly used for each column in a dataset that represents a type of collected information?	"""Feature"". Equivalent terms include ""variable"", ""attribute"", or ""covariate""."
How can you differentiate between numerical and categorical data in a dataset? Provide an example for each.	"Numerical data consists of continuous values (e.g., ""temperature"" measured in degrees Celsius). Categorical data, on the other hand, comprises finite values or categories (e.g., ""gender"" with categories such as ""male"" and ""female"")."
"What is a ""distribution"" in simple terms?"	"Engllish: Distribution: visualizing frequency of various sizes or amounts.""  French: ""Distribution : visualisation de la fréquence des différentes tailles ou quantités."""
Categorical Features	Definition:Features with a limited, fixed number of values or categories.Example:Animal type (e.g., cat, dog, bird).
Numerical Features	Definition:Features representing quantities, can be discrete or continuous.Example:Age (e.g., 25 years), height (e.g., 170 cm).
Importance of Feature Distinction	Reason:Helps choose appropriate preprocessing techniques and algorithms.
"What does the term ""tabular dataset"" refer to?"	A tabular dataset refers to structured data organized in rows and columns, where each row represents an individual observation or sample, and each column represents a specific feature or attribute of that observation.  Examples: - Spreadsheet data in Excel or Google Sheets - CSV (Comma Separated Values) files - Data stored in a relational database table
Feature	Column
sample	row
What are discrete variables?	Discrete variables are distinct and countable, like the number of apples or types of fruits.
What are continuous variables?	Continuous variables can take any value within a range, like height, weight, or temperature.
"What is the meaning of ""mean"" in machine learning?"	Mean in machine learning refers to the average value of a set of numbers or data points, indicating the central tendency of the data.
What is labeled data?	Labeled data refers to a dataset that includes both input features and corresponding output labels, enabling supervised learning algorithms to learn the relationship between the input and output.       Labeled Data:  | Feature 1 | Feature 2 | Output Label | |-----------|-----------|--------------| |   2.5     |   1.5     |     Red      | |   3.5     |   2.5     |     Blue     | |   4.0     |   3.0     |     Red      | |   2.0     |   2.0     |     Blue     |
What is unlabeled data?	Unlabeled data refers to a dataset that contains only input features without corresponding output labels, commonly used in unsupervised learning where the model learns patterns and structures from the data without explicit supervision.   | Feature 1 | Feature 2 | Output Label |  nothing in output |-----------|-----------|--------------| |   2.5     |   1.5     |     ---      | |   3.5     |   2.5     |     ---      | |   4.0     |   3.0     |     ---      | |   2.0     |   2.0     |     ---      |
Difference between Generalization Performance and Cross-Validation	Generalization Performance:Definition: Ability of a machine learning model to perform well on unseen data, indicating its capability to generalize learned patterns.Cross-Validation: Definition: Technique used to assess the generalization performance by systematically partitioning data into subsets for training and testing. Purpose: Provides a more reliable estimate of the model's performance compared to traditional train-test splits.
What is feature scaling in machine learning?	Feature scaling is a method used to standardize the range of independent variables or features of data. It is important because it ensures that each feature contributes equally to the analysis, preventing features with larger scales from dominating the model's decision-making process.
Why is feature scaling particularly important for models that rely on distance calculations?	Feature scaling is crucial for models that rely on distance calculations, such as k-nearest neighbors, because unscaled features can distort the perceived distances between data points. Scaling ensures that each feature contributes approximately equally to these distance computations.
Which machine learning models benefit the most from feature scaling?	Models that involve distance calculations (like k-nearest neighbors) or use gradient descent optimization algorithms (like logistic regression and support vector machines) benefit the most from feature scaling.
What does the StandardScaler from scikit-learn do to features?	StandardScaler transforms each feature to have zero mean and unit variance, effectively normalizing the data so that each feature has the same scale. This transformation is crucial for models that require a standardized scale of input features.
Explain the two steps involved in using StandardScaler for feature scaling.	The two steps are:Fit: Compute the mean and standard deviation for each feature, which are used for later scaling.Transform: Scale the features using the computed mean and standard deviation to adjust each feature to have zero mean and unit variance.
"What does ""zero mean"" mean in data scaling?"	"""Zero mean"" in data scaling means adjusting the average value of a feature to be zero. This is done by subtracting the average value of the feature from each data point, aligning the dataset's center around zero."
"What does ""unit variance"" mean in feature scaling?"	"""Unit variance"" in feature scaling means standardizing the spread of the data points in a feature to have a variance of one. This is achieved by dividing each data point by the standard deviation of the feature, ensuring that the feature's value distribution does not vary widely and is standardized."
